VILLAGE OF ARDEN, DELAWARE
ORDINANCE #4
Use of the Commons and Forests
Adopted by the Town Assembly September 27, 2010. Replaces Ordinance #4 adopted July 1973.
Section 1. Purpose. The residents of Arden wish to preserve the community forests, greens and other
commons for the enjoyment of the community and the general public. It shall be unlawful for any person to
commit any of the following acts.
Section 2. No person or group shall sleep or camp overnight on the greens or other commons in Arden
without a permit (written or electronic) from the Civic Committee. No person or group shall sleep or
camp overnight in the forest without written or electronic permission from the Chair of the Forest
Committee or a Forest Committee designate. If permission is not granted, the reason for the refusal shall be made in
writing to the applicant.
Section 3. The wooded areas shall be closed to all persons from dusk until dawn.
Section 4. No person shall litter the commons or forests of Arden. Littering of any kind in the woods,
streams or commons is prohibited. "Litter" includes but is not limited to cans, paper, building material,
etc., and shall also include organic material such as piles of leaves, hedge clippings and Christmas trees.
Section 5. Open fires shall not be permitted on the greens and forests except at places and times
designated by the Civic or Forest Committee by permit written or electronic. However, no fires shall be
permitted at times the State Fire Marshal proclaims a ban on outdoor fires.
Section 6. The use of fireworks of any kind is always prohibited on the commons.
Section 7. No person shall fell a standing tree (dead or living) in the forests or common lands without
possessing authorization from the Civic or Forest Committee. Removal of wood from fallen trees in the
forests shall be restricted to residents of Arden and subject to the current Forest Stewardship Policy.
Section 8. No person shall damage or destroy recreational equipment or benches on the commons or
forests of Arden.
Section 9. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the greens, forests or pedestrian paths of Arden except as 
required for maintenance or repair approved by the Forest or Civic committee or for parking for special events 
in areas designated by the Civic or Forest Committee.
Section 10. The Civic Committee shall establish rules for the use of commons including, but not restricted
to, consumption of alcoholic beverages, use of recreational equipment, and requests for exclusive use of a
specific area. The Forest Committee shall establish rules for Sherwood and Arden forests. The rules are to
be posted at several places in the Village. The rules will take effect and can be changed after a majority
vote of the Town Assembly. Violation of the rules shall be considered a violation of this ordinance.
Section 11. Violation of this ordinance shall be punishable by a fine that does not exceed the limit set by County code.
Each instance of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Section 12. Any party who violates this ordinance and/or refuses to remove litter or repair damage
including graffiti in a timely manner shall be subject to a fine of $100 and costs of the clean-up.
